Software Installation
=====================
ExpEYES Junior can run on any computer having a USB port and a Python 
Interpreter along with the modules required for accessing them.
The USB interface is handled by a device driver program that
presents the USB port as a Serial port to the Python module. The
communication the expEYES is done using a library written in Python.
Programs with GUI have been written for many experiments. ExpEYES-junior
communication library requires the 'numpy' module. The GUI depends
on packages like pyqtgraph and scipy. The code has been ported to 
python3 and installation can be done in several ways.

On Debian-10 , Ubuntu-18.04 and above
-------------------------------------
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt install expeyes

This will install the versions available in the repository of Ubuntu or Debian.
To install the latest versions download the .deb packages from
https://expeyes.in/software.html and install using the commands.

 $ sudo apt-remove expeyes         # to remove any old version
 $ sudo gdebi downloaded_deb_file

while connected to the Internet

Any GNU/Linux distributions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Download **eyes-junior-x.x.x.zip** (the latest version) from
https://expeyes.in/software.html
upzip it, and change to the newly created
folder named 'eyes-junior'. Issue the command

   $ sudo sh postinst       # set user write permission
   
   $ python main.py

You will get error messages for any missing packages that are required
for expeyes. Install them one by one and try again. Python programs
required for several experiments are in the same directory, they are
called by ’main.py’.

The expEYES Live CD / USB pendrive
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ISO image containing support for eyes junior can be downloaded from
the web page http://expeyes.in/software.html
Make a DVD or USB memory stick bootable using this ISO image (Download
rufus from https://rufus.akeo.ie to do this under MSWindows)

Switch off the PC and insert the liveCD/Pendrive and switch it on. Enter
the BIOS while booting, make the CDdrive/USB hard disk as the first boot
device. A desktop will appear and you can start expEYES-junior from the menu
**Applications->Education**->ExpEYES-Junior. You can also start it from a
Terminal using the command:

   $ python /usr/share/expeyes/eyesj/main.py

Installing on MS Windows
-------------------------

**Bundled Installer:** 
Download and install eyes-junior-setup installer, from the link provided on
https://expeyes.in/software.html

Run the installer and launch eyes-junior from
the icon created on the desktop. This has been tested on Windows10.

Another method is to Install Python3 and the required modules to run 
the ExpEYES junior code. Download  the latest eyesj zip file.
Since the programs are written in Python, the same source code works 
on GNU/Linux and Windows.

